00:01 Speaker 2:
C-N-W-C-N-W-C-N-W-C-N-W.

00:04 Speaker 1:
The ice Cream Parlor slash grill slash deli slash convenience store serves as a one-stop shop and is located on the corner of church and dodge. This local Evanston gem is not only known because of its delicious homemade ice cream, but also because of the people behind the counter who serve their scoops with the side of love. Black business owners. Wendy and Clarence, join me in today's episode to talk about their passion for the community and the challenges they face while being black owners,

00:32 Speaker 3:
Even though I know your cookies and cream ice cream. Well, I wanna get to know more about you, so if you guys could give me a brief introduction of, you know, both of you individually, that would be great.

00:42 Speaker 2:
Okay. As I said, I'm Wendy Weaver, co-owner of c and w Market and Ice Cream Parlor. C and w was founded 2014 as we were driving past and saw a fer rent sign. And it just kind of blew me away because this place had not been VA vacant for some time if we really didn't know, have never seen it, ever vacant. And so it was something that God had put in my heart to be able to do on the side of my nine to five. It's been rewarding because during this also was founded was I food insecurity nonprofit organization.

01:18 Speaker 2:
And, and from that we've been able to being able to meet the needs, the needs of many in the community and outside of the community. And, and currently we are still doing it on a biweekly basis. On every Saturday we gives our food to those who have a need. And in addition to that, we still run our business. We have the convenience store and we have, we just currently expanded the ice cream parlor into the restaurant Grill and deli.

01:49 Speaker 2:
And so we're busy people.

01:50 Speaker 4:
We both corporate backgrounds. I was 40 years it, my wife, 40 years in, in healthcare. And you know, I was satisfied with that because that's what I've been doing since I was 19. So I, this wow, this look and feel was not, you know, it's not the window that I envisioned looking out of every day, but the more and more that we took on the challenge, and when we made the commitment to be here full time, being able to be, being able to interact with the youth just kind of took it to a whole nother level.

02:26 Speaker 1:
Clarence and Wendy have often taken these young adults under their wings, whether it be giving them a place to work, being the listener they never had, or simply having a conversation with these kids while serving them ice cream.

02:36 Speaker 4:
Literally, you know, wanting to make a difference in people's lives. There's no better ground floor in here.

02:44 Speaker 1:
Another organization, one also passionate about community work, has seen and backed the Weaver's mission. The Evanston Rotary Club helped fund some of c W's charitable acts back in the time of the pandemic. After talking to Sean Isles current president of the Club Club, I would infer that he trusts Clarence and Wendy to get the job done. Sean said, and I quote, the Weavers are treasures of the community.

03:07 Speaker 5:
We focus mostly on black-owned businesses. You know, 2020 was not just, you know, the pandemic, but it was also a time where people were becoming more intentional about equity. Yeah. And so we intentionally focused on black owned businesses. That was something that we, we bumped up in. A lot of times there's good hearted people in organizations and they have good intentions and they come up with an idea, but for whatever reason, they don't follow through on it.

03:50 Speaker 5:
That's not Clarence and Wendy. They, they decided there was a need, there was a need, and they followed through on it.

04:00 Speaker 1:
I then dialed up the Unitarian Church of Evanston or the UCE to find out about their partnership with the ice cream parlor. The church worked with c and w to provide non-perishable items for the food pantry back in 2020. Ellie Terson, a volunteer of the UCE seems to have no regrets when it comes to the church's decision to work with Weavers.

04:20 Speaker 6:
Hello.

04:21 Speaker 1:
Hi, Ellie, this is Brooke.

04:22 Speaker 6:
Hi, Brooke. How are you? I just thought, let's streamline this, you know, plus Big plus it was a black owned business, you know? Right. And we're not really helping their business per se, but we're supporting them in what they're doing to help the community. And then of course, every time I stop there, I buy his wife makes homemade chili <laugh>. Oh.

04:45 Speaker 4:
We've always been very community focused, <affirmative> and we're both active in our church.

04:50 Speaker 2:
And then I worked with the Youth <affirmative>, which I really loved as well, so

04:54 Speaker 4:
Amazingly so. And I, it, it is amazing. 'cause a lot of times people talk about giving back. Right. But if it's part of your core, it's not giving back. It's just part of who you are and what you do. <affirmative> you're really sharing what you have. Right. And I think literally, because we know that our youth, especially black, black and brown kids, really need to have a visual representation of, of a model that makes sense to them. Not, not a perfect model. Right. Because too often people like to try to be mentors and be the best things and Slice Bread <affirmative>.

05:28 Speaker 4:
I mean, they, they're here, they hear, they hear our faults, they see our faults.

05:32 Speaker 1:
With only 17% of Evanston's population being black, the weavers are much needed role models for the town's minority youth and longtime employee of the ice cream shop, Jesse Johnson gives the weavers more credit than they give themselves. When did you get the job of a CW employee?

05:48 Speaker 7:
It was March of 2019 when I was in eighth grade.

05:51 Speaker 1:
Oh, wow. So you've been working there for like, a really, really long time now. Yeah. What inspired you to start working there when you were younger?

05:58 Speaker 7:
I was bored when Covid hit and we, my dad started volunteering for them during the food giveaway, and so I just went over there one day and asked if I could help out.

06:07 Speaker 1:
How has it been working for Clarence and Wendy specifically as, as they're your bosses, you know, how has that been?

06:13 Speaker 7:
So I think it's more like I, I, I feel like cliche saying this, but it's more family than like, they're my bosses. I feel very personal with them. They really helped me grow and just mentored me in more ways than just like telling me what to do and paying me <affirmative>. And that's been really great. And I, it's not the same as working anywhere else.

06:33 Speaker 1:
A survey done in 2020 by the Brookings Institution showed that black people make up 14% of the US population, but only 2.3% of employer firms. A survey given to 1000 black business owners across the US in 2023 exposed the on average black owners have to pay approximately $5,000 more to start their own business. It's no surprise to suggest that the weavers may have had their own set of struggles.

06:59 Speaker 2:
Well, I think initially we were very hopeful when we wanted to expand. And I think the one thing that, the biggest disappointment that we had was we, we thought we had everything that we needed. Right. To be able to, to go through the financial piece of this <affirmative> and to say, just to flat to say no, we realized then no matter how much money you have sometimes, or, you know, but everything else that you bring sometimes just because you're black, you're gonna get that answer.

07:33 Speaker 2:
No

07:33 Speaker 4:
<affirmative>. I think you have to always kind of do your homework up front. <laugh>, you have to, you have to literally be viewed as a business as sustaining itself <affirmative> and carrying its own weight and doing things in the C community because we went to the table with a background. I mean, everybody that was on the economic development Committee knew who we were and knew what we were doing. So we weren't coming in as either an outcast or an unknown.

08:02 Speaker 3:
And I think that's just one of the most frustrating things is that, you know, being black, you have just have to work a little bit harder, hard, a little bit more, like, you know, come more prepared and look Yeah. Like you're well off, you know? Right. Before people even take a judgment. And so I think that's,

08:16 Speaker 4:
Yeah. But, but then a huge challenge, the beauty of our ancestors right? Is that they taught us that. Right. They always said, you gotta be ready. You gotta, you gotta work that much harder, <affirmative>. And if it wasn't for that, disappointment would hit a little bit harder. Right. But what happens is that, that some of the things that we get rejected from is only re reinforcing the same thing that our ancestors went through. I've already told you and why we gotta fight harder.

08:41 Speaker 1:
Historically, church and Dodge was in a dangerous area, more often accustomed to violence than family fun. Luckily, times have changed for the better and the corner now contains multiple black owned businesses right next to each other who are eager to show residents just how welcoming their show of stores really is.

08:57 Speaker 4:
It was a window time where Northwestern was told not to come across Ridge. Right. And, and so now to be able to, to see students from Northwestern, from St. Joan of Art, from Notre Dame to be, to come into this space and get the things they need, a haircut, you know, some Jamaican food next door, some ice cream or lunch here, or groceries, you know? Yeah. To see that and know that it's gonna manifest even more over the next five years is, is what we're hoping.

09:28 Speaker 1:
Jackie Hoffman, owner of the authentic Jamaican food restaurant right next door says she's also excited for the future. She claims that if everyone in the community joins together to promote the area's development, the difference in a year or two compared to back then will be night and day. Even the community members notice the now lighthearted atmosphere. Honest Stevenson, customer of c and w feels at peace while in the shop.

09:50 Speaker 8:
I would say it's just very welcoming. I like the bright colors of the paint and how they're seating everywhere. And I could be sitting next to someone I don't know and I'd be comfortable and it's just very welcoming.

10:02 Speaker 2:
We're trying to, we're trying to go into that direction. Yeah. To become big and better and just be the same way that they are on Central Street or downtown Evanston. Right. There's a lot of work to do, but we are here. Right. We're gonna keep fighting until we can get Church of Dodge to look just like everybody else.

10:20 Speaker 1:
I personally think that the variety of ice cream flavors ranging from moose tracks to Rainbow Sherbert are enough to gather the whole Chicago population. I won't be surprised if in a couple of years, C W's line for a Sweet Tree runs all the way to the Bean from Northwestern's Madill, this has been yours. Julie Brooke Miller.